luke three in the fifteenth year of the reign of tiberius caesar pontius pilate being governor of judea and herod being tetrarch of galilee and his brother philip tetrarch of the region of iturea and trachonitis
and lysanias tetrarch of abilene during the high priesthood of annas and caiaphas the word of god came to john the son of zachariah in the wilderness and he went into all the region around the jordan proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins
as it is written in the book of the words of isaiah the prophet the voice of one crying in the wilderness prepare the way of the lord make his path straight
every valley shall be filled
and every mountain and hill shall be made low
and the crooked shall become straight
and the rough places shall become level ways
and all flesh shall see the salvation of God.
He said therefore to the crowds that came out
to be baptized by him,
You brood of vipers,
who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Bear fruits in keeping with repentance
and do not begin to say to yourselves,
We have Abraham as our father.
For I tell you, God is able from these stones
to raise up children for Abraham.
Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees.
Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit
is cut down and thrown into the fire.
And the crowds asked him,
What then shall we do?
And he answered them,
Whoever has two tunics is to share with him who has none,
and whoever has food is to do likewise.
Tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him,
Teacher, what shall we do?
And he said to them,
Collect no more than you are authorized to do.
Soldiers also asked him,
And we, what shall we do?
And he said to them,
Do not extort money from anyone by threats or by false accusation
and be content with your wages.
As the people were in expectation,
and all were questioning in their hearts concerning John
whether he might be the Christ.
John answered them all, saying,
I baptize you with water,
but he who is mightier than I is coming,
the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie.
He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
His winnowing fork is in his hand
to clear his threshing floor and to gather the wheat into his barn.
But the chaff,
he will burn with unquenchable fire.
So with many other exhortations he preached good news to the people.
But Herod the Tetrarch,
who had been reproved by him for Herodias, his brother's wife,
and for all the evil things that Herod had done,
added this to them all that he locked up John in prison.
Now when all the people were baptized,
and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying,
the heavens were opened,
and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove,
and a voice came from heaven.
You are my beloved Son.
With you I am well pleased.
Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age,
being the son, as was supposed, of Joseph,
the son of Heli, the son of Mathet,
the son of Levi, the son of Melchi,
the son of Jenea,
the son of Joseph,
the son of Mattathias,
the son of Amos,
the son of Naam,
the son of Es Hashem,
the son of Es aubad,
the son of Ez- số Kimwa,
the son ofày Major- Damascene,
the son of Negei,
the son of Egy,
the son of Meíz,
the son of afflictedchano,
the son of Mattathias,
the son of Simeon,
the son of Josech,
the son of Joan- visah,
the son of Jourdhah,
the son of Joannan,
the son of Reza,
the son of Heilig-e-Shaktan,
the son of Zerubbabel,
the son of Shealtiel,
the son of Neri,
the son of Melchi,
the son of Elmadim, the son of Ur, the son of Joshua, the son of Eleazar, the son of Joram,
the son of Mathat, the son of Levi, the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph,
the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim, the son of Meliah, the son of Mena, the son of Mattathah,
the son of Nathan, the son of David, the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz,
the son of Selah, the son of Nashan, the son of Amenadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni,
the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac,
the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, the son of Sirag, the son of Rehu,
the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah, the son of Canaan, the son of Arphaxad,
the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech, the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch,
the son of Jared, the son of Mahalalel, the son of Canaan, the son of Enos, the son of Seth,
the son of Adam, the son of God.
