mark fourteen it was now two days before the passover and the feast of unleavened bread and the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to arrest him by stealth and kill him for they said
not during the feast lest there be an uproar from the people and while he was at bethany in the house of simon the leper as he was reclining at table a woman came with an alabaster flask of ointment of pure nard very costly and she broke the flask and poured it over his head
there were some who said to themselves indignantly why was the ointment wasted like that for this ointment could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and given to the poor
and
they scolded her but jesus said leave her alone why do you trouble her she has done a beautiful
thing to me for you always have the poor with you and whenever you want you can do good for them
but you will not always have me she has done what she could she has anointed my body beforehand for
burial and truly i say to you wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world
what she has done will be told in memory of her
then judas
iscariot who was one of the twelve went to the chief priests in order to betray him to them
and when they heard it they were glad and promised to give him money and he sought an opportunity to
betray him and on the first day of unleavened bread when they sacrificed the passover lamb
his disciples said to him where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the passover
and he sent two of his disciples and said to them go into the city and a man carrying a jar of water
will meet you follow him and wherever he enters say to the master of the house the teacher says
where is my guest room where i may eat the passover with my disciples and he will show
you a large upper room furnished and ready there prepare for us and the disciples set
out and went to the city and found it just as he had told them and they prepared the passover
and when it was evening he came with the twelve and as they were reclining at table and eating
the food jesus said truly i say to you one of you will betray me one who is eating with me
they began to be sorrowful and to say to him one after another is it i he said to them it is one of
the twelve one who is dipping bread into the dish with me for the son of man goes as it is written
of him but woe to that man by whom the son of man is betrayed it would have been better for that man
he does not have such prayer no matter how much he who dezies is shown half and what has happened
so the good does not come with the evil his iniquity but He who saves the flesh
and the blood of the body lends himself itself and takes the life he knows and theகள and his
so angled up they go there to eat and then to the wine-king reading in the spirit like men you have
a great parsley and upon you temple and tuamika are沒有 no a manma who would go playing swimming
on the temple and drinkingきます rascun insu if only when he has taken theesa don't let him stay here
when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
And Jesus said to them,
You will all fall away, for it is written,
I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.
But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee.
Peter said to him,
Even though they all fall away, I will not.
And Jesus said to him,
Truly, I tell you, this very night before the rooster crows twice,
you will deny me three times.
But he said emphatically,
If I must die with you, I will not deny you.
And they all said the same.
And they went to a place called Gethsemane,
and he said to his disciples,
Sit here, will I pray?
And he took with him Peter and James and John,
and began to be greatly disappointed.
And he said to them,
My soul is very sorrowful, even to death.
Remain here and watch.
And going a little farther,
he fell on the ground and prayed that,
if it were possible, the hour might pass from him.
And he said,
Abba, Father, all things are possible for you.
Remove this cup from me,
yet not what I will, but what you will.
And he came and found Peter,
and found them sleeping.
And he said to Peter,
Simon, are you asleep?
Could you not watch one hour?
Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation.
The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words.
And again he came and found them sleeping,
for their eyes were very heavy,
and they did not know what to answer him.
And he came the third time and said to them,
Are you asleep?
Are you still sleeping and taking your rest?
It is enough, the hour has come.
The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Rise, let us be going.
See, my betrayer is at hand.
And immediately, while he was still speaking,
Judas came, one of the twelve,
and with him a crowd with swords and clubs
from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying,
The one I will kiss is the man.
Seize him and lead him away under guard.
And when he came, he went up to him at once and said,
Rabbi.
And he kissed him.
And they laid hands on him and seized him.
But one of those who stood by drew his sword
and struck the servant of the high priest
and cut off his ear.
And Jesus said to them,
Have you come out as against a robber
with swords and clubs to capture me?
Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching,
and you did not seize me.
But let the scriptures be fulfilled.
And they all left him and fled.
And a young man followed him
with nothing but a linen cloth about his body.
And they seized him,
but he left the linen cloth and ran away naked.
And they led Jesus to the high priest,
and all the chief priests and the elders
and the scribes came together.
And Peter had followed him at a distance
right into the courtyard of the high priest,
and he was sitting with the guards
and warming himself at the fire.
Now the chief priests and the whole council,
were seeking testimony against Jesus
to put him to death,
but they found none.
For many bore false witness against him,
but their testimony did not agree.
And some stood up and bore false witness against him,
saying,
We heard him say,
I will destroy this temple that is made with hands,
and in three days I will build another
not made with hands.
Yet even about this their testimony did not agree.
And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus,
Have you no answer to make?
What is it that these men testify against you?
But he remained silent and made no answer.
Again the high priest asked him,
Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
And Jesus said,
I am.
And you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power,
and coming with the clouds of heaven.
And the high priest tore his garments and said,
What further witness is this?
What witnesses do we need?
You have heard his blasphemy.
What is your decision?
And they all condemned him as deserving death.
And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face,
and to strike him, saying to him,
Prophesy!
And the guards received him with blows.
And as Peter was below in the courtyard,
one of the servant girls of the high priest came,
and seeing Peter warming himself,
she looked at him and said,
You also were with the Nazarene Jesus.
But he denied it, saying,
I neither know nor understand what you mean.
And he went out into the gateway,
and the rooster crowed.
And the servant girl saw him,
and began again to say to the bystanders,
This man is one of them.
But again he denied it.
And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter,
Certainly you are one of them,
for you are a Galilean.
But he began to invoke a curse on himself, and to swear,
I do not know this man of whom you speak.
And immediately the rooster crowed a second time.
And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him,
Before the rooster crows twice,
you will deny me three times.
And he broke down and wept.
